MLTransform transform catalog snippets (#27709)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/documentation/transforms/python/elementwise/mltransform.md

---
title: "MLTransform"
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# MLTransform for data processing

{{< localstorage language language-py >}}

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a>
      {{< button-pydoc path="apache_beam.ml.transforms" class="MLTransform" >}}
      </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> `MLTransform` is used to apply common machine learning processing tasks on keyed data. Apache Beam provides ML data processing transformations which can be used with `MLTransform`. You can find the full list of available data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `MLTransform` to apply common machine learning (ML) processing tasks on keyed data. Apache Beam provides ML data processing transformations that you can use with `MLTransform`. For the full list of available data
```

> processing transformations in the ((GitHub)[https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/ab93fb1988051baac6c3b9dd1031f4d68bd9a149/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/transforms/tft.py#L52]) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing transformations, see the [tft.py file](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/ab93fb1988051baac6c3b9dd1031f4d68bd9a149/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/transforms/tft.py#L52) in GitHub.
```

> To define a data processing transformation using `MLTransform`, you need to create instances of data processing transforms with `columns` as input paramter. The data in the specified `columns` will be transformed and outputted in the `beam.Row` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a data processing transformation by using `MLTransform`, create instances of data processing transforms with `columns` as input parameters. The data in the specified `columns` is transformed and outputted to the `beam.Row` object.
```

> Let's look at an example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to use `MLTransform` to normalize your data between 0 and 1 by using the minimum and maximum values from your entire dataset. `MLTransform` uses the `ScaleTo01` transformation.

```

```
scale_to_z_score_transform = ScaleToZScore(columns=['x', 'y'])
with beam.Pipeline() as p:
  (data | MLTransform(artifact_location).with_transform(scale_to_z_score_transform))
```

> In this example, `MLTransform` receives `artifact_location`. This location is used to store artifacts generated by the `MLTransform`. We will talk about the `artifacts` later. The data processing transform can be passed using the `with_transform` method of `MLTransform` or transforms can be passed as list to the MLTransform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `MLTransform` receives a value for `artifact_location`. `MLTransform` then uses this location value to store artifacts generated by the transform. To pass the data processing transform, you can use either the with_transform` method of `MLTransform` or a list.
```

Reviewer: If we include this example on this page, it should be in the example section and formatted to match the other examples on the page.

```
MLTransform(transforms=transforms, artifact_location=artifact_location)
```

> All the transforms passed to `MLTransform` are applied sequentially on the dataset. `MLTransform` expects a keyed data (Link to the supported inputs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transforms passed to `MLTransform` are applied sequentially on the dataset. `MLTransform` expects keyed data (Link to the supported inputs).
```

## Example 1

In the example we will create a pipeline that uses MLTransform to scale the data between 0 and 1.

{{< highlight language="py" file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py"
  class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py" mltransform_scale_to_0_1 >}}
{{</ highlight >}}

{{< paragraph class="notebook-skip" >}}
Output:
{{< /paragraph >}}
{{< highlight class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform_test.py" mltransform_scale_to_0_1 >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

The example takes a list of ints and converts them into the range of 0 to 1 using the transform `ScaleTo01`.

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 2
```

In the example, we will create a pipeline that use MLTransform to compute vocabulary on the entire dataset and assign indices to each unique vocab.

{{< highlight language="py" file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py"
  class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py" mltransform_compute_and_apply_vocabulary >}}
{{</ highlight >}}

{{< paragraph class="notebook-skip" >}}
Output:
{{< /paragraph >}}
{{< highlight class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform_test.py" mltransform_compute_and_apply_vocabulary >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

This example takes a list of strings, computes vocab over the entire dataset and applies a unique index to each vocab.

> The above two examples requires a full pass over the dataset to transform the dataset. For `ComputeAndApplyVocabulary`, all the unqiue words in the dataset needs to be known before transforming the data. For `ScaleTo01`, the minimum and maximum of the dataset needs to be known before transforming the dataset. This is acheived by `MLTransform`.

Reviewer: Remove; I moved this content to the intro of the Example section.

> In this example, we will create a pipeline that use MLTransform to compute vocabulary on the entire dataset and assign indices to each unique vocab. This pipeline takes a single element as input instead of list of elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates a pipeline that uses `MLTransform` to compute vocabulary on the entire dataset and assign indices to each unique vocabulary item. This pipeline takes a single element as input instead of a list of elements.
```

      {{< button-pydoc path="apache_beam.ml.transforms" class="MLTransform" >}}
      </a>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Use `MLTransform` to apply common machine learning (ML) processing tasks on keyed data. Apache Beam provides ML data processing transformations that you can use with `MLTransform`. For the full list of available data
processing transformations, see the [tft.py file](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/ab93fb1988051baac6c3b9dd1031f4d68bd9a149/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/transforms/tft.py#L52) in GitHub.

To define a data processing transformation by using `MLTransform`, create instances of data processing transforms with `columns` as input parameters. The data in the specified `columns` is transformed and outputted to the `beam.Row` object.

The following example demonstrates how to use `MLTransform` to normalize your data between 0 and 1 by using the minimum and maximum values from your entire dataset. `MLTransform` uses the `ScaleTo01` transformation.

```
scale_to_z_score_transform = ScaleToZScore(columns=['x', 'y'])
with beam.Pipeline() as p:
  (data | MLTransform(write_artifact_location=artifact_location).with_transform(scale_to_z_score_transform))
```

> In this example, `MLTransform` receives a value for `write_artifact_location`. `MLTransform` then uses this location value to write artifacts generated by the transform. To pass the data processing transform, you can use either the with_transform method of `MLTransform` or a list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `MLTransform` receives a value for `write_artifact_location`. `MLTransform` then uses this location value to write artifacts generated by the transform. To pass the data processing transform, you can use either the `with_transform` method of `MLTransform` or a list.
```

```
MLTransform(transforms=transforms, write_artifact_location=write_artifact_location)
```

> The transforms passed to `MLTransform` are applied sequentially on the dataset. `MLTransform` expects a dictionary and return a transformed Row objecst with numpy arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transforms passed to `MLTransform` are applied sequentially on the dataset. `MLTransform` expects a dictionary and returns a transformed row object with NumPy arrays.
```

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate how to to create pipelines that use `MLTransform` to preprocess data.

MLTransform can do a full pass on the dataset, which is useful when you need to transform a single element only after analyzing the entire dataset.
The first two examples require a full pass over the dataset to complete the data transformation.

* For the `ComputeAndApplyVocabulary` transform, the transform needs access to all of the unique words in the dataset.
* For the `ScaleTo01` transform, the transform needs to know the minimum and maximum values in the dataset.

### Example 1

This example creates a pipeline that uses `MLTransform` to scale data between 0 and 1.

> The example takes a list of ints and converts them into the range of 0 to 1 using the transform `ScaleTo01`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example takes a list of integers and converts them into the range of 0 to 1 using the transform `ScaleTo01`.
```

{{</ highlight >}}

{{< paragraph class="notebook-skip" >}}
Output:
{{< /paragraph >}}
{{< highlight class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform_test.py" mltransform_scale_to_0_1 >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Example 2

This example creates a pipeline that use `MLTransform` to compute vocabulary on the entire dataset and assign indices to each unique vocabulary item.
It takes a list of strings, computes vocabulary over the entire dataset, and then applies a unique index to each vocabulary item.

{{< highlight language="py" file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py"
  class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform.py" mltransform_compute_and_apply_vocabulary >}}
{{</ highlight >}}

{{< paragraph class="notebook-skip" >}}
Output:
{{< /paragraph >}}
{{< highlight class="notebook-skip" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/snippets/transforms/elementwise/mltransform_test.py" mltransform_compute_and_apply_vocab >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

> The above two examples requires a full pass over the dataset to transform the dataset. For `ComputeAndApplyVocabulary`, all the unqiue words in the dataset needs to be known before transforming the data. For `ScaleTo01`, the minimum and maximum of the dataset needs to be known before transforming the dataset. This is acheived by `MLTransform`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Delete this, because it's been moved to the intro.
